  December 6, 2015 
   Professor Handwerker 
   Alcohol Addiction 
  Part I: What is the topic? What is the significance of the issue?
  My research topic revolves around alcohol addiction among the Asian
-American male 
population
 residing in the Contra Cost County
.  I believe this topic is important because many 
Asian
-Americans 
dealing with substance addiction continue to be underestimated and under 
treated.  Asian cultures are very private about their substance abuse and 
do not 
seek 
resources or 
medical assistance
 for addiction 
which also causes an underestimation in
 the statistics
.  I chose to 
research the Asian
-American group because I am of Asian
-American descent and want to learn 
more about how to reduce and prevent alcohol or substance addiction.  I am also in
terested in the 

age group of 21
-30 years old, who are second
-generation immigrants and are addicted to alcohol.  
I chose
 this topic because as an Asian
-American female, I have witnessed first
-hand the pain and 
hardship
 that alcohol addiction 
can cause
 and 
wanted to learn more about what can be done to 

prevent alcohol addiction.
  I have always been interested in alcohol addiction and how it affects 

people because 
my thought was that someone can 
always 
stop drinking whenever they wanted.  
However, after speak
ing with my interviewee, I™ve learned that this is not always the case
.  The 
goal of my research is to remain objective and unbiased while providing my interpretation of the 

results.  My objective is to uncover some of the beliefs and misconceptions in the
 Asian
-American culture and the views they have on alcohol addiction.
 My friend
, Jac, is a 30 year old Asian
-American male whom
 has struggled with alcohol 
addiction s
ince the age of 1
6.  He was born 
and raised 
in the Bay Area Califor
nia and has lived 
here 
his entire life. 
 He is the second youngest of 5 siblings and he has 3 brothers and 1 sister.  

He currently resides in Concord, California with his long term girlfriend.  I met my friend, Jac, 

when we were 13 and 14 years old.  He was athletic, vibrant, an
d full of life.  However, we fell 

out of touch for almost 10 years after I had moved away.  I moved back to the Bay Area 

California a few years ago and we were actually able to rekindle our friendship.  It wasn™t for a 

few months of catching up that I witn
essed Jac™s alcohol addiction and still till this day, he has 

yet to actually admit to me that he is an alcoholic.  
 I sat with Jac on two separate occasions; once in the comfort of his own home and the 
second time over coffee.  Jac identifies himself as a
n Asian American male who had always had 

a strong connection to his cultural roots.  He doesn™t consider himself very religious because his 

parents do not necessarily practice it every day.  He grew up in a very traditional Vietnamese 

family with his paren
ts being first
-generation immigrants.  Up until he started 
experimenting 
with alcohol, he was a good student, obedient child, and was social among a lot of friends.  
He 

never thought that drinking was a problem because of how it was socially 
accepted among his 

culture and peers.  He
 began drinking at the age of 16 years old but his alcohol addiction didn™t 
actually start until he was 21 years old.  He started drinking with his older cousins at social 

events but he said that it was very seldom 
and he never became intoxicated.  
  Part II: Cultural Beliefs and Attitudes or Experiences
 His parents are first generation immigrants from Vietnam and he often found that their 
cultures clashed.  Speaking to him about his cultural beliefs was very interes
ting because he said 
that alcohol consumption was accepted, to a certain extent
.  This is similar to how Laura 
Bohannan (1966) 
in 
Shakespeare in the 
Bush
 because she stated that in 
the African culture, 

ﬁpeople began to drink at dawn a
nd by midmorning the w
hole homestead was singing, dancing, 
and drumming.ﬂ  
This is an example of how cultures, like that of the Vietnamese, accept 
  December 6, 2015 
   Professor Handwerker 
   Alcohol Addiction 
 drinking as a pass time and is even accepted no matter the time of day.  
When asked about his 
cultural beliefs, he stated,
 ﬁGrowing
 up, my
 family and friends often consumed alcohol at ritualistic 
and social events including birthday, baby showers, and funerals.  
It never 
seemed like a problem because it was accepted for us to drink, especially if 
we were around family.ﬂ
 The Vietnamese
 culture 
accepts 
the male population 
to consume alcohol, even if they are
 under 
the legal drinking age.  
However, i
f a female drank alcohol, she was considered defiant and was 
looked down upon.
  Therefore, g
rowing up around alcohol, he believed it had no n
egative 
connotation associated w
ith alcohol.
  Alcohol addiction is no different than that of any other drug addiction.  Its characteristics 
mimic that of illicit drugs because it can result in addiction and impaired judgment.  Often times, 

addicts try to become sober but their urge is too strong that 
they eventually revert back to their 

addiction.  When discussing his experience with alcohol and attempts for sobriety, Jac states,
 ﬁI™m constantly surrounded by people that drink and alcohol is always 

present at every event I go to.  It™s hard to stay sob
er when alcohol is always 
there! It™s not like I want to be like this.  I want to be at a point where I can 

drink and not have hangover for days or even at some point just quit.  It™s 

not like I want to drink, it™s just that my disease (referring to his ad
diction) 

gets the best of me sometimes, well most of the time.  I always try to not 

binge drink but once I start I just can™t stop until it™s too late.ﬂ
 This reminds me of the story of 
Vincent Caselli 
and his 
addiction to eating in 
Compilations: A 

Surgeon™
s Notes on an Imperfect Science
 (Gawande, 2002).  
Caselli was struggling with his 
weight and tried to go on numerous diets but often times found himself gaining all the weight, or 

even more, back.  Caselli also stated that eating made him feel good instant
aneously
 which is 
similar to Jac when he wants to feel better so he consumes alcohol.
  Part III: Myths, 
Perceptions
 and Values
 Asian Americans/Pacific Islanders (AAPI) has experienced an increase problem with 
substance abuse.  The rate of drug treatment ad
missions for the AAPI population has increased 

by 37% between 1994 and 1999 (Niv, Wong, Hser, 2007).  This could also be due to the cultural 

and family values t
hat addiction 
brings shame to the family which leads them to cope with the 
substance abuse priva
tely
 (Niv et al, 2007).  
The AAPI population would rather cope with the 
addiction within the family instead of seeking help from substance abuse treatment services (Niv 

et al, 2007).  
The myth or stigma has caused
 substance abuse within the AAPI population to be 
largely ignored because the minority mo
del theory portrays the AAPI population as
 an 
exemplary racial group with minor substance abuse problems
 (Niv et al, 2007).  
 When we discussed his concept about drinking myths 
perception 
among the Vietnamese 
culture, Jac did acknowledge that any addiction can bring shame to the family.  He said that, for 
the most part, he had always hid his addiction from his family because of f
ear that he will 
disappoint them.
 ﬁMy parents are very traditional.  My mom doesn™t drink at all and my dad 

only drinks at special occasions.  At first, they never said anything to me 

about drinking because I only drank at family functions.  However, it go
t to 

the point that they would have to hide the alcohol from me at parties or 
  December 6, 2015 
   Professor Handwerker 
   Alcohol Addiction 
 events because they didn™t want me to drink too much that I would cause 
them shame or embarrassment.ﬂ
 I wanted to see how Jac perceived his drinking habits and whether or not he 
thought that he had a 

drinking problem?  He stated,
 ﬁI don™t think I™m an alcoholic.  I like to drink with my friends on the 

weekends and know that I can control it.  I know that sometimes I drink a 

little too much but I know that I can taper off my drinki
ng and I™ll be okay.ﬂ
 His perception of alcohol addiction seems slightly skewed as well because he said that everyone 

that he knows consumes alcohol on a regular basis.  Therefore, his perception of alcohol is that it 

is more of a norm than a problem since
 alcohol is socially accepted among his friends and 
family.
  This could also be a factor in his alcohol addiction.
 As in 
The Spirit Catches you and you Fall Down 
(Fadiman, 1998), the AAPI can relate to 
Lia™s parent who felt as though the doctors were to bl
ame for their child™s declining health.  This 
is also the same belief among the AAPI community and that is why they would rather trust 

Chinese Medicine versus Western Medicine.  
Jac agreed.
 ﬁMy parents never knew about rehab or treatment programs.  They ju
st 

simply tried to take everything away from me.  They took my wallet, cell 

phone, and car away in hopes that this would prevent me from getting 

alcohol.  This didn™t stop me, I was still able to walk to the store to buy 

alcohol but sometimes I would steal
 it if I didn™t have any money.  The 
more they did this, the 
angrier
 I became with them and eventually just 
continued to drink in spite of them.ﬂ
 It was very interesting to notice that his parents didn™t necessarily try 
to help or support him 
through his a
lcohol addiction but more try to restrict him.  There needs to be more awareness 
about substance abuse and alcohol addiction in the AAPI community because the access to 

resources can help to reduce the rate of alcohol addiction. 
 
 The value of the 
Vietname
se culture is strictly black or white and there™s really no gray 
area.  In the Vietnamese culture, women that drink are considered defiant, promiscuous, and are 

looked down upon.  However, if she does not consume alcohol and participate in the women 

roles 
of childbearing and housekeeping than she is considered ﬁgood.ﬂ  I asked Jac about his 

opinion on this and his reply was,
 ﬁI don™t see what the problem is with drinking.  All of my female cousins 

and friends drink alcohol but it™s not like they™re bad peop
le.  I think that 

any gender should be able to drink and not be judge but they (referring to 

his parents) are just old fashion.  That™s why they say that girls shouldn™t 

drink.ﬂ
 According to Jac, the Vietnamese culture is very 
judgmental
 and anything that causes 
shame is looked down upon.  He said that his parents didn™t want people to know 

about his drinking habit because they didn™t want to ﬁlose faceﬂ or ﬁ
muc matﬂ
 in 
Vietnamese.  This is what leads them to keep the addiction within the
 family and try to 
fix it themselves versus seeking medical help.
  Part IV: Religious Beliefs and Ethics
   Growing up, he was raised 
believing in t
he Buddhist religion.  
His parents would have 
ritualistic events, what the Vietnamese called ﬁ
Cung
ﬂ which is 
a family fathering to remember 
anniversary of an ancenstor™s death.  At these events, family members gather around to give 
  December 6, 2015 
   Professor Handwerker 
   Alcohol Addiction 
 offerings of food and drinks to the spirits in honor of their passing.  Often at these events, alcohol 
is not only offered to the spi
rits but the family members will often consume alcohol as they 
enjoy 
each other™s company.  To Jac, this made drinking seem more of a norm within his culture and 

that™s what shifted his beliefs about alcohol.  As Jac was explaining this event to me, it rem
inded 
me of the event in 
The Spirit Catches you and you Fall Down 
(Fadiman, 1998) when Lia™s 

family held a ritualistic event to try to get her spirit back.  The family and friends gathered in 

their apartment and slaughtered chickens as offerings to the spi
rits to help guide Lia™s spirit back 
to her body (Fadiman, 1998).
 
 I also wanted to discuss with Jac
 how alcohol fits into his life and see the social and 
cultural patterns of drinking and alcoholism.  
Culture
s often intersect
 with ethics but cultural 
norms often influence moral and what is cultural accepted.  Among the Vietnamese culture, 
the 

set of mor
al principles 
is that drinking is accepted during social events and only in moderation.  
Therefore, if you drink outside of social events, especially alone, is considered bad.  Woman 

should not drink because it considers them promiscuous and any type of su
bstance abuse or 
addiction will bring shame to the family.  Jac, however, doesn™t believe in any of these cultural 

ethics that the
 Vietnamese culture practices because his beliefs are more influenced by the 
Western culture that consuming alcohol, no matter
 the gender, is accepted if done responsibly.
  References (APA)
  Bohannan, Laura. (1966). 
Shakespeare in the bush: An American 
anthropologist
 set out to study 
the Tiv
 of West Africa and was taught the true meaning of Hamlet. 
Pick from the Past: 
Natural History
  
Fadiman, A. (1998). 
The spirit catches you and you fall down: A Hmong child, her American 
doctors, and the collision of two cultures. 
New York: Noonday Press
  
Gawade, A. (2002). 
Compilations: A surgeon™s notes on an imperfect science.
 Picador. New 
York, NY
  
Niv, N., Wong, E.C., Hser, Y. (2007). 
Asian Americans in community
-based substance abuse
 treatment: Service needs, utilization, and outcomes.
 Journal of Substance Abuse 

Treatment. Retrieved from 
http://www.sciencedirect.com.proxylib.csueastbay.edu/science/article/pii/S07405472070
00062 on December 1, 2015
     December 6, 2015 
   Professor Handwerker 
   Alcohol Addiction 
 Informed Consent (First Page)
        December 6, 2015 
   Professor Handwerker 
   Alcohol Addiction 
 Informed Consent (Second Page)
       December 6, 2015 
   Professor Handwerker 
   Alcohol Addiction 
 Self
-Evaluation
   I initially took this class because it was a requirement for my Health Science degree.  I 
chose anthropology out of the other option of 
sociology of health science because I felt as though 
it would give me a different perspective on healthcare and medical
 aspects.  I was very 
fascinated with the readings, especially 
The Spirit Catches you and you Fall Down
.  Most of the 

videos were very in
teresting and it opened my eyes to different views such as transgender in 
Ma 
Vie En Rose
 and the difficult cultural beliefs of cannibals in 
Keep the Rive
r on your Right
.  All in 
all, the course material from this class has definitely allowed me to view the
 medical aspects of 
healthcare in a more culturally competent and unbiased manor.
   I believe that I deserve an A or an A
- in this class
 because I made sure to stay on top of 
all of the readings and videos.  I 
kept up with all of my readings and submitted all of my 

assignments on time or early.  I
 used the study guide to study
 for both quizzes and was able to 
able to 
achiev
e an A and B.  
Attendance was not taken as t
his was an online class 
but I needed to 
check both Blackboard and Horizon
 email multiple times a week to make sure that I was current 

with any updates.  
This also allowed me to stay current with all of my assignments and due dat
es 
to ensure that I do not fall behind in the class.
 